h1. jQuery Anystretch

PLEASE NOTE: This is a fork of the original jQuery Backstretch by @srobbin. This version includes the ability to call Backstretch on any block level element and handles multiple instances.

Anystretch is a jQuery plugin that allows you to add a dynamically-resized background image to any page or block level element.
The image will stretch to fit the page/element, and will automatically resize as the window size changes.

h2. Demo

The examples within this package show both the problem and solution.

h2. Options

h3. centeredX

The ratio of the width/height of the image doesn't always jive with the width/height of the window. This parameter controls whether or not we center the image on the X axis to account for the discrepancy. (type=Boolean, default=true)

h3. centeredY

This parameter controls whether or not we center the image on the Y axis to account for the aforementioned discrepancy. (type=Boolean, default=true)

h3. speed

This is the speed at which the image will fade in, after downloading is complete. Integers are accepted, as well as standard jQuery speed strings (slow, normal, fast). (type=Integer, default=0)

h3. elPosition (only when not used on the body)

This is the css position given to the containing element when used on anything except the body. (type=String, default=relative)

h3. useInnerWidth (only when not used on the body)

By default Anystretch uses the outside measurements of an element to calculate it's size. If needed to can force it to use it's inner width. e.g. when you have borders. (type=Boolean, default=false)


h2. Setup

Include the jQuery library and Anystretch plugin files in your webpage (preferably at the bottom of the page, before the closing BODY tag):

<pre><code><script type="text/javascript" src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.7.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="/jquery.anystretch.min.js"></script>
</code></pre>

Note: The example above uses the Google hosted version of jQuery; there is also a jQuery source file included with this distribution, if you would like to host it yourself.

<pre><code><script type="text/javascript">
  $.anystretch("/path/to/image.jpg", {speed: 150});
</script>
</code></pre>

Want to change the image after Anystretch has been loaded? No problem, just call it again!

<pre><code><script type="text/javascript">
  $.anystretch("/path/to/image.jpg", {speed: 150});
  
  // Perhaps you'd like to change the image on a button click
  $(".button").click(function() {
      $.anystretch("/path/to/next_image.jpg");
  });
</script>
</code></pre>

If you require Anystretch to work on one or more elements inside the page, rather than the page itself, simply call it on the element:

<pre><code><script type="text/javascript">
  $('#myDiv').anystretch("/path/to/image.jpg", {speed: 150});
</script>
</code></pre>

h2. Changelog

h3. Version 1.0

* This was forked from Backstretch (version 1.2)